Welcome back.
Now let's talk about a solution to this problem.
So I've created a new copy of that project.
If you notice here update state was our starter code and then update will update complex.
Was our starter code update complex state solution is where I'm going to put the solution.
And if you recall our app just looks like this.
We've got four instructors all each have their own hobby's array and they're just displaying the hobbies.
And our goal is to randomly remove one of the hobbies from one randomly chosen instructor after five
seconds.
So I'll start off by creating my set time out in my constructor.
And remember it's important that this is an arrow function.
When we use this set state this should be an arrow function.
Otherwise the keyword this can change.
Remember one of the properties of Arrow functions is that this is preserved from the surrounding scope
and in the surrounding scope.
This refers to map
well let's not forget five seconds.
Now in this function I want to do two things.
First I want to find a random instructor out of my instructor's array.
So I'll do that.
How do I access that constructors array it's this state that instructors.
Now I've got my randomly chosen instructor index.
Next I need to choose a random Havi from within that array of hobby's for that instructor.
Now I've got my random instr. index in my random hobby index.
All that's left now is updating the state.
So there's a couple of approaches we could take at this point.
First I'm going to start off by showing something that's wrong.
So this is not the solution.
Do not do this but I just want to clarify some some common pitfalls that people have when they're updating
state.
So one approach you might've taken was to first slice that array which gives us a copy so I can say
my new instructor's array is equal to this dot state.
Instructors that slice.
So now this is a brand new array.
And we have it modified the start state at all.
So this is a good start.
But say you did something like this next.
What does this do.
It gets our instructor out of the instructor's array it access at the hobby's array for that instructor
and then it calls splice on it and splice is a function you basically never want to use when you're
modifying state because splice modifies the original array and remember even though we've made a copy
of our outer array This isn't a deep copy slice just gives us a new array with all the same elements
inside.
So this object that I'm accessing inside of my instructors array is still the same state and so this
code right here is modifying or state.
This is a big no no.
Do not ever mess with state.
So what's a better way to do this.
Well first remove this incorrect code
and then one approach I could take would be to make a copy of that object that I want to mutate so I'll
do that with objects that assign.
So what I've done here is I've just created a copy of that object.
So now the reference here is a different object.
I remember this array is our own array so it's OK to modify that array.
And we've still have modified state we just made a copy of this object into a new object that we can
then mess around with.
Now that we've done that
actually let me make this slightly bigger.
OK now that we've done that the next step would be to modify just that hobby's array.
And even though we've made a copy of this instructor's objects remember the array that we're referencing
inside that object still is the original array.
So we need to make a copy of that as well.
All right now we have a new copy of that hobby's array we've gotten rid of the old version excuse me
we haven't gotten rid of the old version we just haven't modified the original version.
So now this slice is generating a new array that we can then use.
And finally we can use splice now because all the data that we have inside this instr. instance is our
new version of the old data.
So I'll do instructors of Rand instructor dot Hobbes dot splice of Havi index and one
OK that should do it.
Now the last step is to use that state
and just like we've seen before since this key is also called instructors and we've got this instructor's
variable.
I can just use the shorthand notation I don't have to break it out.
OK let's see if this actually works.
And there we go after five seconds we've randomly chosen Tim and Tim randomly last sailing.
So if I refresh this page
all right now we've seen a different one called last one of his hobbies.
I think it was SS So this code works.
It makes sense.
It's quite complicated though there's lots of follow here so I'm going to show a different approach
for solving this problem which I think is a little easier using the object spread operator.
So start by commenting this out so we can compare and the first thing I'll do is rather than slice this
Ray I'll use map
and remember map returns a new array it doesn't modify the original array.
So are our rules here we'll still apply that state will not get modified directly.
And then inside of this map I just wanna do a simple check to see if I found the instructor that I'm
looking for.
So if I is equal to my random instructor
then I want to return
a new objects
will fill us in in a second.
But if it's not equal to my random instructor then I just want to return that original instructor right.
Nothing's changed and we don't need to create a copy.
We'll just save the original data here.
Oh and let me make one more change.
I want to get rid of the curly braces so I don't have to do the return statement so the index that we're
at is equal to my instructor index.
Then I want to return to New objects and I want to keep all the keys in that objects so I'll use the
spread operator here.
So now we've spread out the keys.
We only have two here.
But for the sake of correctness we'll just spread those out and then the key that I want to overwrite
is hobbies and hobbies will be equal to a new array that all.
Then again you'd spread with tsunamis a combination of concat and slice to get my desired behavior.
So first I'll slice this from 0 to our hobby index
and then I'll Concat.
So there we go that should work.
Now we are slicing the hobby's array to get a copy but only the beginning and then we're going to call
concat on that with the rest of our hobbies.
Now this is getting a little complicated for my taste so let's simplify all.
Bring back my curly braces and I'll do this code outside of our spread.
So out here I want to say
so now I have a copy of my hobbies array.
In fact let's refactor this altogether to not use the ternary operator.
There we go I like this solution much better.
So it's clean that up and talk about it.
OK so what's going on here.
Well if the index that we're on is equal to the instructor that we want to modify that's when we actually
do some work.
If that's not the case we just return that original instructor.
So nothing has changed about that state so there's no need to make a copy.
We'll just keep the original state.
But if this is the state that we want to change if this is the correct instructor then we'll make a
copy of that instr. array by using instr. hobbies that slice.
We can also write this as a spread.
So now that we have that copy of the hobby's array we can use splice on it.
So I'll just splice out the one that I don't want and then I'll return a new object which is the spread
of whatever instr. has plus the hobby's array that we just copied and modified and that should do it.
Now we have everything that's going on over here except in a much much simpler form.
Using map
and the last piece of code that we need to keep is this that set say and we want to save that instructor's
array which we did up here.
So let's get rid of that code and let's check to make sure this all works.
All right we are move sailing again.
It just goes to show you that random is not too random in javascript
and this time we lost CSSA from cold.
All right that's it.
So I hope that was educational.
Next up we'll talk about some more state concepts.